Pilar is welcome.
Adi Borja, thank you very much.
A lot thanks.
I think Power Marketers
will enjoy Blablacar’s
analysis and they will
be lucky.
What we will do is analyze it from
many perspectives and they will see
it throughout the master’s course.
I advance, because the value proposal,
segmentation, early adopters, we will
talk about that, we will talk
about your funnel, how you capture
customers in online marketing, offline
marketing, we will talk
about how you manage the team,
how your job is, your role
as a CMO, etc.
But before all that, I
would like to briefly
analyze the Blablacar model.
Basically, what it consists of,
what you offer to each side and
how you make money.
Blablacar is the largest social
network for long-distance
travel by car.
At the end of the day it is a marketplace
and we are responsible for providing
that technology layer to an application
that makes it possible for
people who will take a same trip
to coincide to do so and can be
contacted to share travel and
so share associated expenses.
I will analyze some of the
things you said.
You talked about marketplace.
This in The Power Envié we enter
into much detail in platform
models, but basically a marketplace
is a model in which, or any
platform, the main feature
is that it has two customer
segments and you do not have
two sides.
What you do is connect them.
So the way to generate value for
them is to connect them, as you
said.
You are the technology.
and exact.
This has a number of challenges and
a number of benefits.
The challenges are that if you don’
t have enough critical mass on both
sides, imagine that you only have
drivers or only passengers,
because there is no value.
This is a linear model
where you add value from
the first customer to
the last.
What it gets is the critical mass
on both sides, generating
a brutal entry barrier.
How many users are you in Spain
right now?
We have been in Spain for over 10
years and have over 5 million users.
And what actually allows it is that
it is a model that is very
easy to scale.
We are present in 22 countries
and have a global community
of over 85 million
people.
You talked about climbing.
It is actually easier to scale
because you are not the owners
of the means of production, in this
case it would be the cars.
You are connected.
The car is put by the driver.
That makes you much more agile or
much more scalable or more flexible
in growth because you get to another
market and you don’t have to have
10,000 cars.
You have to start filling
the marketplace on both sides.
In fact, in the end we are a marketplace
and what we offer is that technological
layer that puts people in
contact who want to make
a common journey.
We always have to remember
that our customers are
two, supply and demand.
In this case, drivers and passengers.
Now tell us a little bit
about how it works, how
it works, what drivers and
passengers do, how you connect
them.
So, let’s say that they first have to
register on the platform and
when they are already registered
it would be the activation phase.
Activation is to publish a trip in the
case of the driver and to reserve a
seat in the case of the passenger.
So, when a driver is planning his
trip, there comes a moment in
the last step in which he says,
well, choose a price at which
you want to publish your trip.
Blablacar suggests a price.
for automation of vehicles,
etc.
And we suggest a price of 6
cents per kilometer travelled.
I go on a trip and he says, then from
Bilbao to Madrid, 20 euros.
Exactly, they would calculate how
many kilometers there are from Madrid
to Bilbao and multiply those kilometers
by 6 cents.
That is per person.
Exactly by seat.
That is the price per seat.
So, every passenger who would
ask for a seat would pay that
amount.
And that price is, in the market,
if we compare it with alternatives,
VHC, train, bus, how is it?
More expensive or cheaper?
Usually cheaper.
It is true that for certain axes,
say axes of concrete tracks,
depends on the trail, we have
more or less competition, but
it is usually a very affordable price.
And then, when you have published
the driver, you have the price
suggested by Blablacar, but that
driver, because it is collaborative
economy, we do not set a
price, but the driver can
increase or reduce the price
up to 50%.
What do you do with the car or something
like that?
This is what drivers decide.
The reason for putting a limit is that
they can’t have an economic benefit,
because in the end it’s pure collaborative
economy.
What happens is that it’s true that
drivers, for example, imagine
a driver who will be posting
by and thus attract more passengers.
Well, and finally, how are
the income flows here?
Where do you get the income from Blablacar?
Blablacar would take a small commission
of all the transaction value that
is produced, which passes through
the platform, say, and therefore
we take a commission.
Ok, because already to summarize,
two sides, drivers and passengers,
you connect them, you have explained
some of the functionalities,
because you suggest a price,
etc., etc., and what you
do is transact there because it
is paid in the app.
and exact.
At first, when we landed in Spain,
we did not take any commission,
because of the need to attract
passengers and drivers,
and the payment was in cash,
i.e. cash, and inside the
vehicle.
Then, there came a time when, obviously,
we put a commission and
there it went to online payment.
With this online payment,
we have achieved a greater
commitment.
There was a greater chance that you
would be left in the run.
Well, to earn money.
Well, of course, Blablacar has
to live from something.
You didn’t monetize
before, right?
We didn’t monetize and the goal was
to try to capture more criticism
from both drivers and passengers,
but, effectively, in the end, all
that technology and the entire
equipment behind it must
be paid.
Well, that’s the challenge of many
platforms that come almost from a
model sometimes classified,
etc., and want to become this, a marketplace,
because it’s that, otherwise,
they’re not...
of course.
Of course, when you trade money within
your platform it’s easy to make
money, monetize it, right?
But when you trade out, either they
are the ones who go up the ad, or
if not, you always get money.
Yes, and in the end it was all
lost until we already put the moment
of commission.